well un officials and local health
workers are preparing to roll out a mass
vaccination program for polio in Gaza
which will rely on a series of limited
pauses in fighting between Israeli
forces and Hamas the World Health
Organization says it will need to
vaccinate at least 90% of children aged
under 10 for the campaign to succeed its
campaign was organized after a
10-month-old baby was partly Paralyzed
by the first case of the virus in Gaza
in a quarter of a century on Saturday
Medics vaccinated children at One
hospital in a symbolic move ahead of the
official campaign from Jerusalem our
Middle East correspondent yoland Nell
reports just two drops as the UN begins
vaccinating against polio in Gaza a dose
is easy to give but carrying out a mass
immunization campaign in a combat zone
is a huge challenge parents of the first
vaccinated children are relieved
I was worried and afraid because this is
scary the polio disease this disease
makes the children unable to
move baby Abdul Rahman was crawling
early but now his mom worries he'll
never be able to walk he was the first
child found to have polio in Gaza in 25
years and it paralyzed his leg because
of the war he wasn't vaccinated and now
Medical Care is limited
abud wants to leave and be treated he
wants to live and walk like other
children I feel a lot of guilt that he
didn't get the vaccination but I
couldn't give it to him because of our
circumstances displaced five times the
baby's family now lives in a crowded
tent camp in deab balah in central Gaza
raw sewage flows through streets nearby
conditions are ideal for diseases to
spread especially polio which is highly
in
infectious since discovering the virus
un agencies have been racing to set up
an emergency Mass vacination program and
with war raging they've negotiated three
localized 3-day pauses in fighting with
Israel and Hamas un officials say the
plan is not ideal but it's workable with
no end in sight to the war the hope is
that at least one new source of
suffering can be eliminated
yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem well still with me is my
colleague Muhammad Taha from BBC Arabic
uh Muhammad we are seeing some live
images now of the vaccination roll out
actually underway we're seeing images
from a hospital in De Al Bala where um
babies and children are receiving the
polio uh vaccinations uh how significant
is this in what is was potentially a uh
humanitarian crisis with the outbreak of
polio it is very significant it is a
very happy moment where we see some kind
of normality of life in Gaza where
children were going to hospital to have
vaccination it is very very delightful
uh moment in in in the midst of all the
wars that's happening in the West Bank
in the uh in in in Israel and in the
northern of Israel and funnily enough or
I don't know it's not funn it's it's
it's hard to describe but not too far
from this location in Al brige in Bridge
refugee camp there were a Israeli
shelling and one person at least were
killed and there were a shelling and in
eastern Gaza and one person at least
killed but people are really adamant as
you can see the 2,000 workers from the
local uh health authority in Gaza and
with the with the cooperation of the
World Health Organization and the UNICEF
and the UN officials 2,000 people are
really determined to have this campaign
successful as a successful event well
Muhammad thank you that's uh my
colleague Muhammad Taha from BBC Arabic